Below is a repository that implements a **Self-Organizing Map** for unsupervised clustering of articles from the BBC-text dataset. The categories into which the data falls are as follows: *business*, *entertainment*, *politics*, *sport*, and *tech*. First, the project will do some preprocessing on the text data by tokenizing, removing stop words and punctuation, and lemmatizing/stemming words. Then, it will create a **bag-of-words** model for them and extract features by applying **TF-IDF**. Finally, dimensionality reduction using **Principal Component Analysis** optimizes the input data.

A **SOM** is trained using the `selforgmap` function, which classifies the documents into the five categories. Once the training is complete, the results are evaluated by means of a **confusion matrix**, which contrasts the predicted cluster with the actual category. The confusion matrix can be visualised for classification accuracy as well as for evaluating the performance of SOM.

These are the key scripts: *`FinalProject.m`*, to execute training and classification of the SOM, and to perform pre-processing of text data; it carries out tokenization, removes stop words, and applies TF-IDF through a proprietary function, *`preprocessText.m`*.

This project provides an example of how **SOM** can group text data based on unsupervised learning. Since the dimensionality of input data is reduced by the **SOM**, the **SOM** performs nice job for grouping these documents wherein their performance is clearly evaluated using the confusion matrix.
